CSP-Results-Update.md, before:

# Coral Stress Phenome Paper

### Writing

[Main paper google doc link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1geXeJEXaPVHWE6Ivdi6BW2qoF3PHT_Ok1Fv9iM8aLwg/edit).  
[Supplemental Methods google doc link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EQtKXPAxybWeG9LPgz5mEjV0kLC8PoA571XGKSlX2ek/edit).

### Experimental Design

![expt-sch](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Environmental-data/HoloInt-schematic.png?raw=true)

900 corals, 450 *M. capitata* and 450 *P. acuta*, were collected from 6 sites in Kaneohe Bay, Hawai'i. These corals were randomly assigned to one of 4 treatments. 3 tanks per treatment, 12 tanks total. 2 months of treatment and 2 months of recovery in ambient conditions.   

ATAC = Ambient Temperature (27C) Ambient pCO2 (~480 uatm)  
ATHC = Ambient Temperature (27C) High pCO2 (~1,200 uatm)    
HTAC = High Temperature (29.5C) Ambient pCO2 (~480 uatm)  
HTHC = High Temperature (29.5C) High pCO2 (~1,200 uatm)

![sites](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/Site-Map.png?raw=true)

### Collection Timeline

| Date Collected 	| Site Name         	| Coordinates                	|
|----------------	|-------------------	|----------------------------	|
| 20180904       	| SITE 2 HIMB       	| 21°26'09.8"N 157°47'12.7"W 	|
| 20180905       	| SITE 6 REEF 42.43 	| 21°28'37.9"N 157°49'36.8"W 	|
| 20180906       	| SITE 5 REEF 35.36 	| 21°28'26.0"N 157°50'01.2"W 	|
| 20180907       	| SITE 4 REEF 11.13 	| 21°27'02.9"N 157°47'41.8"W 	|
| 20180908       	| SITE 1 LILIPUNA   	| 21°25'45.9"N 157°47'28.0"W 	|
| 20180910       	| SITE 3 REEF 18    	| 21°27'02.9"N 157°48'40.1"W 	|

Experimental treatment started on 20180922.

**fill in the spawning dates for context**:  
*M. capitata* spawning dates:  
*P. acuta* spawning dates:

### Sampling Timeline

|                      	| Acute Stress 	|       	| Chronic Stress 	|      	|      	|      	|      	|      	|      	|      	| Recovery 	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|
|----------------------	|--------------	|-------	|----------------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|----------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|
|                      	| Day 1        	| Day 2 	| Wk 1           	| Wk 2 	| Wk 3 	| Wk 4 	| Wk 5 	| Wk 6 	| Wk 7 	| Wk 8 	| Wk 9     	| Wk 10 	| Wk 11 	| Wk 12 	| Wk 13 	| Wk 14 	| Wk 15 	| Wk 16 	|
| Holobiont Physiology 	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	|       	|       	| x     	|       	|       	|       	| x     	|
| Metabolism          	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|
| Growth              	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	| x     	|       	| x     	|       	| x     	|       	| x     	|
| Bleaching Score     	|              	|       	| x              	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x        	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	|
| Survivorship        	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x        	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	|
| Molecular            	| 0, 6, 12 hr  	| 24 hr 	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	|       	|       	| x     	|       	|       	|       	| x     	|

**Response variables:**

Molecular: Symbiont community assemblage (ITS2 Seq), bacterial community assemblage (16S Seq), gene expression patterns (RNASeq), DNA methylation patterns (WGBS).  

Metabolomics   

Holobiont physiology: protein content, total antioxidant capacity, chlorophyll concentration, tissue biomass, symbiont density.  

**Currently not included in Coral Stress Phenome paper**  

- Metabolism: respiration and photosynthetic rates.  
- Growth rates  
- Pocillopora acuta identity (mtORF Seq)   

### Experimental Treatments

**Hobo Logger Data**

Emma is working on parsing the hobo logger data.

![hobo](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Hobo-loggers.png?raw=true)

We could make this into DHW or # C above monthly average?

**Discrete Temperature and pH Measurements**

![pH](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Discrete-pH.png?raw=true)

![temp](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Discrete-Temperature.png?raw=true)

![trtph](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Discrete-Temp-pH-Trt.png?raw=true)

**Discrete Carbonate Chemistry**

![cc](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Carbonate-Chemistry.png?raw=true)

**Apex continuous data**


### Physiological data

Only what is to be included in Coral Stress Phenome paper. Link to results package from HoloInt [here](https://github.com/hputnam/Acclim_Dynamics/blob/master/HoloInt-Results-package.md).

#### Survivorship

Figure as of 2021-05-27. For now these are just copied from HoloInt repo.

![suv](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/All_survivorship_20210527.png?raw=true)

#### Color Score

Corals were photographed every week until sampled.

![bl](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/Photographic_Bleaching_20210527.png?raw=true)

#### Multivariate physiology  

![mcap](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-inset-mcap_20210528.png?raw=true)

![pc](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-inset-pacuta_20210528.png?raw=true)

### Statistics

**Mcap multivariate physiology**

PERMANOVA

```
Call:
adonis(formula = Mcap.data.scaled ~ Timepoint * Temperature *      CO2, data = Mcap.info, method = "eu")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)
Timepoint                   4     80.06 20.0148  3.7709 0.11808  0.001
Temperature                 1      9.12  9.1233  1.7189 0.01346  0.128
CO2                         1      1.86  1.8593  0.3503 0.00274  0.841
Timepoint:Temperature       4     41.39 10.3478  1.9496 0.06105  0.022
Timepoint:CO2               4     18.82  4.7041  0.8863 0.02775  0.557
Temperature:CO2             1      4.56  4.5629  0.8597 0.00673  0.458
Timepoint:Temperature:CO2   4     23.27  5.8167  1.0959 0.03432  0.349
Residuals                  94    498.92  5.3077         0.73587       
Total                     113    678.00                 1.00000  
```

**Pacuta multivariate physiology**

PERMANOVA

```
adonis(Pact.data.scaled ~ Timepoint*Temperature*CO2, data = Pact.info, method='eu')

Call:
adonis(formula = Pact.data.scaled ~ Timepoint * Temperature *      CO2, data = Pact.info, method = "eu")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)
Timepoint                   4     71.93  17.982  3.7145 0.11988  0.001
Temperature                 1     40.18  40.179  8.2996 0.06696  0.001
CO2                         1      2.53   2.534  0.5235 0.00422  0.675
Timepoint:Temperature       4     52.81  13.204  2.7275 0.08802  0.006
Timepoint:CO2               4     17.91   4.477  0.9248 0.02985  0.527
Temperature:CO2             1      1.92   1.916  0.3957 0.00319  0.794
Timepoint:Temperature:CO2   3     15.76   5.252  1.0849 0.02626  0.378
Residuals                  82    396.96   4.841         0.66161       
Total                     100    600.00                 1.00000  
```


Just ATAC by reef --

prcomp run on just Mcap ATAC data or just Pacuta ATAC data and grouped by Site.Name in the below figure. Not subsetted by timepoint.

![Mcap-reef](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/PCA-by-reef.png?raw=true)

![Pact](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/PCA-by-reef-Pacuta2.png?raw=true)


### ITS2 Sequencing

![its2](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/ITS2_20210528.png?raw=true)

*Mcapitata* PERMANOVA results:

```
Call:
adonis(formula = MC.mat ~ Temperature * CO2 * Timepoint, data = MC.info,      permutations = 999, method = "bray")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)  
Temperature                 1     0.130 0.12973 0.43631 0.00324  0.709  
CO2                         1     0.054 0.05377 0.18086 0.00134  0.917  
Timepoint                  10     3.823 0.38230 1.28580 0.09534  0.164  
Temperature:CO2             1     0.352 0.35220 1.18455 0.00878  0.292  
Temperature:Timepoint      10     4.400 0.43995 1.47969 0.10972  0.091 .
CO2:Timepoint              10     3.347 0.33472 1.12577 0.08348  0.333  
Temperature:CO2:Timepoint  10     1.828 0.18282 0.61487 0.04559  0.944  
Residuals                  88    26.165 0.29733         0.65251         
Total                     131    40.098                 1.00000         
---
Signif. codes:  0 ‘***’ 0.001 ‘**’ 0.01 ‘*’ 0.05 ‘.’ 0.1 ‘ ’ 1

```

*Pacuta* PERMANOVA results:

```
Call:
adonis(formula = PA.mat ~ Temperature * CO2 * Timepoint, data = PA.info,      permutations = 999, method = "bray")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)  
Temperature                 1    0.0123 0.01232  0.0546 0.00047  0.965  
CO2                         1    0.4337 0.43367  1.9207 0.01644  0.144  
Timepoint                   9    1.2209 0.13566  0.6008 0.04629  0.900  
Temperature:CO2             1    0.8171 0.81712  3.6190 0.03098  0.032 *
Temperature:Timepoint       9    1.8427 0.20475  0.9068 0.06987  0.560  
CO2:Timepoint               9    2.4246 0.26940  1.1931 0.09193  0.273  
Temperature:CO2:Timepoint   9    1.7854 0.19838  0.8786 0.06770  0.603  
Residuals                  79   17.8374 0.22579         0.67632         
Total                     118   26.3742                 1.00000         
---
Signif. codes:  0 ‘***’ 0.001 ‘**’ 0.01 ‘*’ 0.05 ‘.’ 0.1 ‘ ’ 1
```

### 16s Sequencing

Samples are at the URI Genome Sequencing Center being processed.

### Whole Genome Bisulfite Sequencing

60 Pacuta from 5 time points in processing in lab at URI. Estimated ship date to sequencing center = June 14th.

Commit message:

when do variables become significant table

CSP-Results-Update.md, after:

# Coral Stress Phenome Paper

As of 2021-07-01 the CSP paper is going to be focused on the gene expression patterns of the symbiont and host. We will use the color score and survivorship figures as the main figures for this paper. The rest will likely be in my first chapter. Refer to Acclim Dynamics Results.

### At what point do all the univariate variables have a significant effect of temperature?

Based on the below, I would say it is safe to combine Day 1 and Day 2 and possibly Week 1 for future molecular analyses. The only variable that is significant or even close is S:H Biomass for Mcap at 1 week.

| Variable 	| Mcap        	| Pacuta                	|
|----------------	|-------------------	|----------------------------	|  
| Color Score | At least 6 weeks | At least 4 weeks |  
| Host biomass | Never | 2 weeks |  
| Sym biomass | At 2 weeks only | 2 weeks |  
| Ratio biomass | At 1 week only | 2 weeks |  
| chlorophyll | Close at 2 and 8 weeks | Close at 4 and 6 weeks; significant at 8 weeks |  
| protein | At 2 weeks only; pCO2 at 6 weeks | 4 weeks |  
| antioxidant capacity | 12 weeks only | never |   
| respiration | Close at 2 weeks only | 4 weeks |  
| photosynthesis | At 2 weeks then at 8 weeks | 4 weeks |


### Writing

[Main paper google doc link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1geXeJEXaPVHWE6Ivdi6BW2qoF3PHT_Ok1Fv9iM8aLwg/edit).  
[Supplemental Methods google doc link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EQtKXPAxybWeG9LPgz5mEjV0kLC8PoA571XGKSlX2ek/edit).

### Experimental Design

![expt-sch](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Environmental-data/HoloInt-schematic.png?raw=true)

900 corals, 450 *M. capitata* and 450 *P. acuta*, were collected from 6 sites in Kaneohe Bay, Hawai'i. These corals were randomly assigned to one of 4 treatments. 3 tanks per treatment, 12 tanks total. 2 months of treatment and 2 months of recovery in ambient conditions.   

ATAC = Ambient Temperature (27C) Ambient pCO2 (~480 uatm)  
ATHC = Ambient Temperature (27C) High pCO2 (~1,200 uatm)    
HTAC = High Temperature (29.5C) Ambient pCO2 (~480 uatm)  
HTHC = High Temperature (29.5C) High pCO2 (~1,200 uatm)

![sites](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/Site-Map.png?raw=true)

### Collection Timeline

| Date Collected 	| Site Name         	| Coordinates                	|
|----------------	|-------------------	|----------------------------	|
| 20180904       	| SITE 2 HIMB       	| 21°26'09.8"N 157°47'12.7"W 	|
| 20180905       	| SITE 6 REEF 42.43 	| 21°28'37.9"N 157°49'36.8"W 	|
| 20180906       	| SITE 5 REEF 35.36 	| 21°28'26.0"N 157°50'01.2"W 	|
| 20180907       	| SITE 4 REEF 11.13 	| 21°27'02.9"N 157°47'41.8"W 	|
| 20180908       	| SITE 1 LILIPUNA   	| 21°25'45.9"N 157°47'28.0"W 	|
| 20180910       	| SITE 3 REEF 18    	| 21°27'02.9"N 157°48'40.1"W 	|

Experimental treatment started on 20180922.

**fill in the spawning dates for context**:  
*M. capitata* spawning dates:  
*P. acuta* spawning dates:

### Sampling Timeline

|                      	| Acute Stress 	|       	| Chronic Stress 	|      	|      	|      	|      	|      	|      	|      	| Recovery 	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|
|----------------------	|--------------	|-------	|----------------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|------	|----------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|-------	|
|                      	| Day 1        	| Day 2 	| Wk 1           	| Wk 2 	| Wk 3 	| Wk 4 	| Wk 5 	| Wk 6 	| Wk 7 	| Wk 8 	| Wk 9     	| Wk 10 	| Wk 11 	| Wk 12 	| Wk 13 	| Wk 14 	| Wk 15 	| Wk 16 	|
| Holobiont Physiology 	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	|       	|       	| x     	|       	|       	|       	| x     	|
| Metabolism          	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|       	|
| Growth              	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	| x     	|       	| x     	|       	| x     	|       	| x     	|
| Bleaching Score     	|              	|       	| x              	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x        	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	|
| Survivorship        	| x            	| x     	| x              	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x    	| x        	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	| x     	|
| Molecular            	| 0, 6, 12 hr  	| 24 hr 	| x              	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|      	| x    	|          	|       	|       	| x     	|       	|       	|       	| x     	|

**Response variables:**

Molecular: Symbiont community assemblage (ITS2 Seq), bacterial community assemblage (16S Seq), gene expression patterns (RNASeq), DNA methylation patterns (WGBS).  

Metabolomics   

Holobiont physiology: protein content, total antioxidant capacity, chlorophyll concentration, tissue biomass, symbiont density.  

**Currently not included in Coral Stress Phenome paper**  

- Metabolism: respiration and photosynthetic rates.  
- Growth rates  
- Pocillopora acuta identity (mtORF Seq)   

### Experimental Treatments

**Hobo Logger Data**

Emma is working on parsing the hobo logger data.

![hobo](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Hobo-loggers.png?raw=true)

We could make this into DHW or # C above monthly average?

**Discrete Temperature and pH Measurements**

![pH](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Discrete-pH.png?raw=true)

![temp](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Discrete-Temperature.png?raw=true)

![trtph](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Discrete-Temp-pH-Trt.png?raw=true)

**Discrete Carbonate Chemistry**

![cc](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-Carbonate-Chemistry.png?raw=true)

**Apex continuous data**


### Physiological data

Only what is to be included in Coral Stress Phenome paper. Link to results package from HoloInt [here](https://github.com/hputnam/Acclim_Dynamics/blob/master/HoloInt-Results-package.md).

#### Survivorship

Figure as of 2021-05-27. For now these are just copied from HoloInt repo.

![suv](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/All_survivorship_20210527.png?raw=true)

#### Color Score

Corals were photographed every week until sampled.

![bl](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/Photographic_Bleaching_20210527.png?raw=true)

#### Multivariate physiology  

![mcap](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-inset-mcap_20210528.png?raw=true)

![pc](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-inset-pacuta_20210528.png?raw=true)

### Statistics

**Mcap multivariate physiology**

PERMANOVA

```
Call:
adonis(formula = Mcap.data.scaled ~ Timepoint * Temperature *      CO2, data = Mcap.info, method = "eu")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)
Timepoint                   4     80.06 20.0148  3.7709 0.11808  0.001
Temperature                 1      9.12  9.1233  1.7189 0.01346  0.128
CO2                         1      1.86  1.8593  0.3503 0.00274  0.841
Timepoint:Temperature       4     41.39 10.3478  1.9496 0.06105  0.022
Timepoint:CO2               4     18.82  4.7041  0.8863 0.02775  0.557
Temperature:CO2             1      4.56  4.5629  0.8597 0.00673  0.458
Timepoint:Temperature:CO2   4     23.27  5.8167  1.0959 0.03432  0.349
Residuals                  94    498.92  5.3077         0.73587       
Total                     113    678.00                 1.00000  
```

**Pacuta multivariate physiology**

PERMANOVA

```
adonis(Pact.data.scaled ~ Timepoint*Temperature*CO2, data = Pact.info, method='eu')

Call:
adonis(formula = Pact.data.scaled ~ Timepoint * Temperature *      CO2, data = Pact.info, method = "eu")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)
Timepoint                   4     71.93  17.982  3.7145 0.11988  0.001
Temperature                 1     40.18  40.179  8.2996 0.06696  0.001
CO2                         1      2.53   2.534  0.5235 0.00422  0.675
Timepoint:Temperature       4     52.81  13.204  2.7275 0.08802  0.006
Timepoint:CO2               4     17.91   4.477  0.9248 0.02985  0.527
Temperature:CO2             1      1.92   1.916  0.3957 0.00319  0.794
Timepoint:Temperature:CO2   3     15.76   5.252  1.0849 0.02626  0.378
Residuals                  82    396.96   4.841         0.66161       
Total                     100    600.00                 1.00000  
```


Just ATAC by reef --

prcomp run on just Mcap ATAC data or just Pacuta ATAC data and grouped by Site.Name in the below figure. Not subsetted by timepoint.

![Mcap-reef](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/PCA-by-reef.png?raw=true)

![Pact](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/PCA-by-reef-Pacuta2.png?raw=true)


### ITS2 Sequencing

![its2](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/rel.abund.its2.png?raw=true)

![its2](https://github.com/hputnam/Acclim_Dynamics/blob/master/Output/Final_Figures/rel.abund.its2.bubble.png?raw=true)

5 TP figure:

![5tp](https://github.com/hputnam/Coral_Stress_Phenome/blob/main/Final-figures/CSP-rel.abund.its2.png?raw=true)

*Mcapitata* PERMANOVA results:

```
Call:
adonis(formula = MC.mat ~ Temperature * CO2 * Timepoint, data = MC.info,      permutations = 999, method = "bray")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)  
Temperature                 1     0.130 0.12973 0.43631 0.00324  0.709  
CO2                         1     0.054 0.05377 0.18086 0.00134  0.917  
Timepoint                  10     3.823 0.38230 1.28580 0.09534  0.164  
Temperature:CO2             1     0.352 0.35220 1.18455 0.00878  0.292  
Temperature:Timepoint      10     4.400 0.43995 1.47969 0.10972  0.091 .
CO2:Timepoint              10     3.347 0.33472 1.12577 0.08348  0.333  
Temperature:CO2:Timepoint  10     1.828 0.18282 0.61487 0.04559  0.944  
Residuals                  88    26.165 0.29733         0.65251         
Total                     131    40.098                 1.00000         
---
Signif. codes:  0 ‘***’ 0.001 ‘**’ 0.01 ‘*’ 0.05 ‘.’ 0.1 ‘ ’ 1

```

*Pacuta* PERMANOVA results:

```
Call:
adonis(formula = PA.mat ~ Temperature * CO2 * Timepoint, data = PA.info,      permutations = 999, method = "bray")

Permutation: free
Number of permutations: 999

Terms added sequentially (first to last)

                           Df SumsOfSqs MeanSqs F.Model      R2 Pr(>F)  
Temperature                 1    0.0123 0.01232  0.0546 0.00047  0.965  
CO2                         1    0.4337 0.43367  1.9207 0.01644  0.144  
Timepoint                   9    1.2209 0.13566  0.6008 0.04629  0.900  
Temperature:CO2             1    0.8171 0.81712  3.6190 0.03098  0.032 *
Temperature:Timepoint       9    1.8427 0.20475  0.9068 0.06987  0.560  
CO2:Timepoint               9    2.4246 0.26940  1.1931 0.09193  0.273  
Temperature:CO2:Timepoint   9    1.7854 0.19838  0.8786 0.06770  0.603  
Residuals                  79   17.8374 0.22579         0.67632         
Total                     118   26.3742                 1.00000         
---
Signif. codes:  0 ‘***’ 0.001 ‘**’ 0.01 ‘*’ 0.05 ‘.’ 0.1 ‘ ’ 1
```

### 16s Sequencing

Samples are at the URI Genome Sequencing Center being processed.

### Whole Genome Bisulfite Sequencing

60 Pacuta from 5 time points in processing in lab at URI.   
30 hour, 2 week, 4 week, 8 week, 12 week.
